Introduction
Created: June 23, 2008; Updated: January 7, 2021.
Sequence similarity searching is one of the more important bioinformatics activities and often  provides the first 
evidence for the function of a newly sequenced gene or piece of sequence. Basic Local Alignment Search Tool 
(BLAST) is probably the most popular similarity search tool. The National Center for Biotechnology 
Information (NCBI) first introduced BLAST in 1989. The NCBI has continued to maintain and update BLAST 
since the first version. In 2009, the NCBI introduced a new version of the stand-alone BLAST applications 
(BLAST+). The BLAST+ applications have a number of improvements that allow faster searches as well as more 
flexibility  in output formats and in the search input. These  improvements include: splitting of longer queries so 
as to reduce the memory usage and to take advantage of modern CPU architectures; use of a database index to 
dramatically speed up the search; the ability to save a “search strategy” that can be used later to start a new 
search; and greater flexibility  in the formatting of tabular results.
The functionality of the BLAST+ applications is organized by search type. As an example, there is a “blastp” 
application that compares proteins queries to protein databases. The “blastx” application translates a nucleotide 
query in six frames and searches it against a protein database. This  organization is different  from that of the 
applications first released in 1997 (e.g., blastall) that supported all types of searches with one application, but it 
resembles that of the NCBI BLAST web site. An advantage of this design is that each application has only the 
options relevant to the searches it performs. Additionally, each application can compare a query to a set of 
FASTA sequences in a file, bypassing the need to create a BLAST database for small and infrequently searched 
sets. Finally, a “remote” option permits each application to send off a search to the NCBI servers.
This  manual has several sections. It provides brief installation instructions, a QuickStart, a section describing 
BLAST+ features in more depth, a “ Cook Book ” section on how to perform a number of tasks, as well as three 
appendices. The first appendix discusses tools to help with the transition from the older applications (e.g., 
blastall) to the BLAST+ applications. The second appendix documents exit codes from the BLAST+ applications. 
The third appendix is a table of BLAST options, the type of input required, and the default values for each 
application. The fourth appendix lists the scoring parameters that the blastn application supports.
An introduction to BLAST is outside the scope of this manual, more information on this subject can be found on 
http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi?CMD=Web&PAGE_TYPE=BlastDocs .
Please feel free to contact us with any questions, feedback, or bug reports at blast-help@ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.3