BLAST+ features
Tom Madden1 and Christiam Camacho2
Created: June 23, 2008; Updated: March 14, 2021.
Tasks
The blastn and blastp applications have a –task option. This  option sets the parameters (e.g., word-size or gap 
values) to typical values for a specific  type of search. For example, the “megablast” task is optimized for 
intraspecies comparison as it uses a large word-size, whereas “blastn” is better suited for interspecies 
comparisons with a shorter word-size. These  tasks resemble the “Program Selection” section of the BLAST web 
pages and do not preclude the user from setting other options to override those specified  by the task. See 
Appendix "Options for the command-line application"  for documentation on parameter values for different  
tasks. The following tasks are currently available:
Program Task Name Description
blastp blastp Traditional BLASTP to compare a protein query to a protein database
blastp-short BLASTP optimized for queries shorter than 30 residues
blastn blastn Traditional BLASTN requiring an exact match of 11
blastn-short BLASTN program optimized for sequences shorter than 50 bases
megablast Traditional megablast used to find very similar (e.g., intraspecies or closely related species) sequences
dc-megablast Discontiguous megablast used to find more distant (e.g., interspecies) sequences
Megablast indexed searches
Indexing provides an alternative way to search for initial matches in nucleotide-nucleotide searches (blastn and 
megablast) by pre-indexing the N-mer locations in a special data structure, called a database index.
Using an index can improve search times significantly  under certain conditions. It is most beneficial  when the 
queries are much shorter than the database and works best for queries under 1 Mbases long. The advantage 
comes from the fact that the whole database does not have to be scanned during the search.
Indices can capture masking information, thereby enabling search against databases masked for repeats, low 
complexity, etc.
There  are, however, limitations to using indexed search in blast:
•Index files are about four times larger than the blast databases. If an index does not fit into computer 
operating memory, then the advantage of using it is eliminated.
•Word size must be set to 16 or more in order to use an indexed search.
•Discontiguous search is not supported.
Reference: Morgulis A, Coulouris G, Raytselis Y , Madden TL, Agarwala R, Schäffer  AA. Database Indexing for 
Production MegaBLAST Searches. Bioinformatics 2008, 24(16):1757-64. PMID:18567917
Author Affiliations:  1 Email: madden@ncbi.nlm.nih.gov 2 Email: camacho@ncbi.nlm.nih.gov17