BLAST search strategies
BLAST search strategies are files that encode the inputs necessary to perform a BLAST search. The purpose of 
these files is to be able to seamlessly reproduce a BLAST search in various environments (Web BLAST, command 
line applications, etc).
Exporting search strategies on the Web BLAST
Click on "download" next to the RID/saved strategy in the "Recent Results" or "Saved Strategies" tabs.
Exporting search strategies with BLAST+ applications
Add the -export_search_strategy along with a file name to the command line options.
Importing search strategies on Web BLAST
Go to the "Saved Strategies" tab, click on "Browse" to select your search strategy file, then click on "View" to load 
it into the submission page.
Importing search strategies with BLAST+ applications
Add the -import_search_strategy along with a file name containing the search strategy file. Note that if provided, 
the –query, -db, -use_index, and –index_name command line options will override the specifications  of the 
search strategy file provided (no other command line options will override the contents of the search strategy 
file).
Negative GI lists
Search applications support negative GI lists. This  feature provides a means to exclude GIs from a BLAST 
database search. The expect values in the BLAST results are based upon the sequences actually searched and not 
on the underlying database. For an example, see the cookbook.
Masking in BLAST databases
It is now possible to create BLAST databases that contain filtered  sequences (also known as masking information 
or masks). This  filtering  information can be used for soft or hard masking of the subject sequences. For 
instructions on creating masked BLAST databases, please see the cookbook .
Custom output formats for BLAST searches
The BLAST+ search command line applications support custom output formats for the tabular and comma-
separated value output formats. For more details see “outfmt” in Appendix “Options for the command-line 
application” as well as the cookbook .
Custom output formats to extract BLAST database data
blastdbcmd supports custom output formats to extract data from BLAST databases via the -outfmt command 
line option. For more details see the blastdbcmd options in Appendix “Options for the command-line 
application” as well as the cookbook .18 BLAST® Command Line Applications User Manual