b.28 bases exact match for MegaBLAST
c.3 residue match with score above threshold for BLAST[PX]/TBLASTN (default requires 2 
word hits on a diagonal)
d.6 residue match with score above threshold for BLAST[PX]/TBLASTN for fast task “blastp-
fast” etc. (default requires 2 on diagonal)
2.Perform a gap free extension based on the initial word hits. If this extension has a score above S_g 
(set so that about one in 50 database sequences pass) then move on to step 3. Otherwise move on 
to next sequence.
3.Perform a gapped extension based on the gap free extension. This  gapped extension does not 
collect traceback information, but only the extent of the alignment and the resulting score 
(making it fast). This  gapped extension uses a modified  dynamic programming algorithm that 
only explores a limited space based on a parameter called X_g. If the resulting alignment passes 
the score cutoff  (determined by expect value) move on to next step, otherwise move on to next 
sequence.
4.Save the result for further processing unless there are already N_i better matching sequences 
saved. Save the results in order of significance,  keeping the best N_i thus far. Move on to next 
sequence.
D.For each entry in the list saved in step C4 above:
1.Perform a gapped alignment with traceback (i.e., collect score, extent, position of indels, etc.) 
using an X_fg that is larger than X_g. The larger X_fg means that the score and ranking of a match 
may change. If CBS, then also adjust the score and expect value based on the composition of the 
subject sequence (the composition of the query is always considered). This  may change the score 
and ranking of a match, sometimes dramatically.
2.Add the resulting match to a new ordered list. A tie (two matches with identical score and expect 
value) is broken by the order of the sequences in the database. Almost every entry processed in the 
last step results in a significant  match, but an alignment calculated with CBS may become much 
less statistically significant  and will no longer be saved.
E.Format a report based on the list saved in D2:
1.Discard the N_i-N least significant  matches.
2.Print results for the first N matches.
The retention of N_i > N matches through the internals of BLAST is intended to ensure that if some matches 
become more or less significant,  in the last phase of constructing the alignment, that BLAST will still show the 
user the most relevant matches. For CBS, we increase N_i by a larger amount than for standard gapped BLAST, 
as the application of CBS may result in a larger change in the significance  of a match. For the same reason, the 
internal expect value is also increased from the user requested value if CBS is requested.96 BLAST® Command Line Applications User Manual