Table C9: Makeprofiledb  application options. This  application builds an RPS-BLAST database. An option of type “flag”  takes no 
arguments, but if present the argument is true. COBALT (a multiple sequence alignment program) and DELTA-BLAST both use RPS-
BLAST searches as part of their processing but use specialized versions of the database. This  application can build databases for 
COBALT, DELTA-BLAST, and a standard RPS-BLAST search. The “dbtype” option (see entry in table) determines which flavor  of the 
database is built.
option type default value Description and notes
in string stdin Input file that contains a list of scoremat files (delimited by space, tab, or newline)
binary flag N/A The scoremat files are binary ASN.1
title string none Title for RPS-BLAST database. If not set, the input file name will be used.
threshold real 9.82 Threshold  for RPSBLAST lookup table.
out string input file name Name of BLAST database to be created. Input file name is used if none provided.
max_file_size string 1GB Maximum file size to use for BLAST database.
dbtype string rps Specifies  use for RPSBLAST db. One of rps, cobalt, or delta.
index flag N/A Creates index files.
gapopen integer none Cost to open a gap. Used only if scoremat files do not contain PSSM scores, otherwise 
ignored.
gapextend integer none Cost to extend a gap by one residue. Used only if scoremat files do not contain PSSM 
scores, otherwise ignored.
scale real 100 PSSM scale factor.
matrix string BLOSUM62 Matrix to use in constructing PSSM. One of BLOSUM45, BLOSUM50, BLOSUM62, 
BLOSUM80, BLOSUM90, PAM250, PAM30 or PAM70. Used only if scoremat files do not 
contain PSSM scores, otherwise ignored.
obsr_threshold real 6 Exclude domains with maximum number of independent observations below this value 
(for use in DELTA-BLAST searches).
exclude_invalid real true Exclude domains that do not pass validation test (for use in DELTA-BLAST searches).
logfile string none Program log file (default is stderr).90 BLAST® Command Line Applications User Manual