Table C10 continued from previous page.
option type default value description and notes
%mX means sequence masking data, where X is an optional comma-separated list of 
integers to specify the algorithm ID(s) to display (or all masks if absent or invalid 
specification).  Masking data will be displayed as a series of 'N-M' values separated by ';' 
or the word 'none' if none are available. For every format except '%f ', each line of output 
will correspond to a sequence.
target_only flag N/A Definition  line should contain target GI only.
get_dups flag N/A Retrieve duplicate accessions.
line_length integer 80 Line length for output.
ctrl_a flag N/A Use Ctrl-A as the non-redundant definition  line separator.
Table C11: Makembindex application options. The indexed databases created by makembindex are used by production MegaBLAST 
software  and by a new srsearch utility designed to quickly search for nearly exact matches (up to one mismatch) of short queries against 
a genomic database. When a FASTA formatted file is used as the input, then masking by lower case letters is incorporated in the index. 
Makembindex can currently build two types of indices, called “old style” and “new style” indexing. The NCBI offers  full support for the 
new style and has deprecated the old style. A MegaBLAST search with a new style index requires that both the index and the 
corresponding BLAST database be present. The index structure is described in PMID:18567917 . Please cite this paper in any 
publication that uses makembindex.
option type default value Description and notes
input string stdin Input file name or BLAST database name, depending on the value of the iformat parameter. 
For FASTA formatted input, this parameter is optional and defaults to the program's 
standard input stream.
output string none The resulting index name. The index itself can consist of multiple files,  called volumes, called 
<index_name>.00.idx, <index_name>.01.idx,...
This  option should not be used with new style indices.
iformat string fasta The input format selector. Possible values are 'fasta' and 'blastdb'.
old_style_index boolean false The old_style_index is no longer supported. If set to 'false' the new style index is created. 
New style indices require a BLAST database as input (use -iformat blastdb), which can be 
downloaded from the NCBI FTP site or created with makeblastdb. The option -output is 
ignored for a new style index. New style indices are always created at the same location as 
the corresponding BLAST database.
db_mask integer None Exclude masked regions of BLAST db from the index. Use makeblastdb to discover the 
algorithm ID to be used as input for this argument.
legacy boolean true This  is a compatibility feature to support current production MegaBLAST. If true, then 
-stride, -nmer, and -ws_hint are ignored. The legacy format must be used for BLAST.92 BLAST® Command Line Applications User Manual